
Introduction to Java EE

Developers today increasingly recognize the need for distributed, transactional, and portable applications that leverage
the speed, security, and reliability of server-side technology. Enterprise applications provide the business logic for an
enterprise. They are centrally managed and often interact with other enterprise software. In the world of information
technology, enterprise applications must be designed, built, and produced for less money, with greater speed, and with
fewer resources.

With the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE), development of Java enterprise applications has never been easier
or faster. The aim of the Java EE platform is to provide developers with a powerful set of APIs while shortening development
time, reducing application complexity, and improving application performance.

The Java EE platform is developed through the Java Community Process (JCP), which is responsible for all Java technologies.
Expert groups composed of interested parties have created Java Specification Requests (JSRs) to define the various Java EE
technologies. The work of the Java Community under the JCP program helps to ensure Java technology’s standards of stability
and cross-platform compatibility.

The Java EE platform uses a simplified programming model. XML deployment descriptors are optional. Instead, a developer
can simply enter the information as an annotation directly into a Java source file, and the Java EE server will configure
the component at deployment and runtime. These annotations are generally used to embed in a program data that would otherwise
be furnished in a deployment descriptor. With annotations, you put the specification information in your code next to the
program element affected.

In the Java EE platform, dependency injection can be applied to all resources a component needs, effectively hiding the
creation and lookup of resources from application code. Dependency injection can be used in Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB)
containers, web containers, and application clients. Dependency injection allows the Java EE container to automatically
insert references to other required components or resources, using annotations.

This tutorial uses examples to describe the features available in the Java EE platform for developing enterprise applications.
Whether you are a new or experienced enterprise developer, you should find the examples and accompanying text a valuable
and accessible knowledge base for creating your own solutions.
https://javaee.github.io/tutorial/toc.html

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Java SE = Standard Edition. This is the core Java programming platform. It contains all of the libraries and APIs that
any Java programmer should learn (java.lang, java.io, java.math, java.net, java.util, etc...).

Java EE = Enterprise Edition. It differs from the Java Standard Edition Platform (Java SE) in that it adds libraries which
provide functionality to deploy fault-tolerant, distributed, multi-tier Java software, based largely on modular components
running on an application server.
In other words, if your application demands a very large scale, distributed system, then you should consider using Java EE.
Built on top of Java SE, it provides libraries for database access (JDBC, JPA), remote method invocation (RMI), messaging (JMS),
web services, XML processing, and defines standard APIs for Enterprise JavaBeans, servlets, portlets, Java Server Pages, etc..

Java ME = Micro Edition. This is the platform for developing applications for mobile devices and embedded systems such as
set-top boxes. Java ME provides a subset of the functionality of Java SE, but also introduces libraries specific to mobile
devices.

Here are some differences in terms of APIs

Java SE includes has the following APIs and many more

    applet
    awt
    rmi
    jdbc
    swing
    collections
    xml binding
    JavaFX (Merged to Java SE 8)
    Java 8 Collections Streaming API
    Java 9 Reactive Streams API
    Java 9 HTTP/2 API

Java EE includes the following APIs and many more

    servlet
    websocket
    java server faces
    dependency injection
    ejb
    persistence
    transaction
    jms
    batch api

Java ME includes the following APIs and many more

    Wireless Messaging
    Java ME Web Services
    Security and Trust Services API
    Location
    Mobile XML API



